Intro to Python

Through the exercises in this workshop participants will read over a file containing a list of customers. They will then write functions to parse the data and calculate the distance between a mock business and each customer.

They will then identify their mock businesses closest customers and, time permitting, write the results out in geojson which they can visualize on a platform such as http://geojson.io

The exercises will be relatively simple, but I will make suggestions of things more advanced developers can do to challenge themselves.

1. Python overview: qualities and conventions
  a. Interpreted language
  b. Interactive mode
  c. Easy to learn/read syntax enforced by indentation
  d. Rapid development
  e. PEP 8

  lecture 10min
  --------------
  * total: 10 min

2. Installing Python and dependencies
  a. Virtualenv: What it is and why it’s useful
  b. What are modules and packages
  c. PyPi/pip: Where you can find or distribute packages
    i. installing, upgrading, searching for packages
  d. Requirements.txt - creating and installing from requirements.txt
  Activity 1: Install python in a virtual environment and install dependencies using a requirements.txt file.
  For review we will just confirm that everyone has everything they need installed to proceed with the workshop

  lecture: 5min
  activity: 5min
  review: 5min
  -----------
  total: 15min

3. Data Structures and Iterating
  a. Strings and string formatting
  b. Tuples, Lists, Sets, Dictionaries
  c. List comprehensions
  Activity 1: Participants will read over a text file and parse each record into a dictionary.

4. Writing functions
  a. Basic function syntax
  b. Arguments - default values
  c. Our activity will cover reading files, so we will briefly cover file i/o and using 'with' to create a context
  Activity 1: Participants will write two functions one that reads data from a csv and a second function that calculates the cartesian distance between two pairs of coordinates

  lecture: 10min
  activity 1: 15min, review: 5min
  ------------
  total: 35min

5. Advanced Functions
  d. Generators
  e. Decorators
  Activity 2: Participants will write a decorator for their distance function that will return a dictionary with the start and end coordinates, and distance value
  Activity 3: Participants will use a list comprehension to filter their data by a given distance.

  lecture: 20min
  activity 1: 5min, review: 5min
  activity 2: 10min, review: 5min
  activity 3: 5min, review: 5min
  ------------
  total: 60min
