A Python Refresher - Cyrus H.  - 5 TA’s w/ python bg

Through the exercises in this workshop participants will read over a file containing a list of customers. They will then write functions to parse the data and calculate the distance between a mock business and each customer.
They will then identify their mock businesses closest customers and, time permitting, write the results out in geojson which they can visualize on a platform such as http://geojson.io
The exercises will be relatively simple, but I will make suggestions of things more advanced developers can do to challenge themselves.

1. Python overview
  a. A little about Python
  b. Python conventions
  c. PEP 8

  lecture 10min
  --------------
  total: 10 min

2. Installing Python and dependencies
  a. Virtualenv
  b. Modules and packages
  c. PyPi/pip: installing, upgrading, searching for packages
  d. Requirements.txt

  activity: Create a virtual environment and install dependencies using a requirements.txt file.
  For review we will just confirm that everyone has everything they need installed to proceed with the workshop

  lecture: 5min
  activity: 5min
  review: 5min
  -----------
  total: 15min

3. Data Structures and Iterating
  a. Strings and string formatting
  b. Tuples, Lists, Sets, Dictionaries
  c. List comprehensions
  d. Our activity will cover reading files, so we will briefly cover file i/o and using 'with' to create a context

  activity: Read over a text file and parse each record into a dictionary using comprehensions.

  lecture: 10min
  activity: 15min
  review: 5min
  -------------
  total 30min

4. Writing functions
  a. Basic function syntax
  b. Arguments - default values, keyword arguments

  activity: Write two functions one to read data from a csv and a second to calculate the cartesian distance between coordinates

  lecture: 10min
  activity: 10min, review: 5min
  ------------
  total: 25min

5. Advanced Functions
  d. Generators
  e. Decorators

  activity: Write a decorator for their distance function that will return a dictionary with the start and end coordinates and distance value

  lecture: 20min
  activity: 15min, review: 5min
  ------------
  total: 45min

1. 10min
2. 15min 25min
3. 30min 55min
4. 25min 80min
5. 40min 120min
